import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# Custom Blockchain Indexing on Cardano

## Abstract

This RFC proposes a mechansim to simplify the creation of custom indexes for
Blockchain data in the Cardano ecosystem. The proposed system offers a unique
approach that balances lightweight flexibility and specific use-case
requirements.

## Introduction

Currently, indexing chain data presents significant challenges, primarily
because every project has unique requirements. Existing indexing solutions are
either too cumbersome or lack necessary features. The solution? We propose a
framework that allows projects to define data filtering and aggregation logic in
a concise Typescript file, utilizing the Map / Reduce algorithm. This tool then
performs custom indexing and exposes a GraphQL API, thereby providing a bespoke
solution for each project's needs.

## Problem Context

Chain data is vast and constantly growing. The full ledger structure is
intricate, and most dApps only need a small fraction of the on-chain data
relevant for their use-case. The current tools available attempt to offer
one-size-fits-all solutions, which either require extensive storage and compute
resources or provide limited query options.

## The Ideal Scenario

The ideal scenario is to have a tailored database for each dApp, containing only
the relevant chain subset and designed specifically for the dApp's needs.
Boilerplate code and infrastructure plumbing should be readily available through
an SDK. Developers can then focus on adapting the SDK to their dApp's specific
requirements. The solution should also include an easy and flexible querying
system, ideally via a GraphQL endpoint. The deployment of such a solution should
be straightforward and well-documented, with the added option of infrastructure
service providers offering "indexing" clusters that can plug-and-play custom
code for client dApps.

## Use Cases

The proposed solution can benefit a variety of applications, including:

- A DEX could create custom indexes for their liquidity pools and swap
  transaction history.
- An NFT marketplace could create custom indexes for available collections,
  bidding prices, total supply, and transaction history.
- An Oracle could create custom indexes for the current value and history of
  past values for their fact statement catalogs.
- ADA Handles could be represented by a custom index that maps handles to the
  latest address.
- A dApp that requires batching of UTxOs could create custom indexes to keep
  track of relevant UTxO required for their batching purposes.

## Technical Plan

We aim to build an open-source indexing engine, based on a modified version of
Scrolls, that supports plugins. These plugins will run using either the Deno
runtime or a WASM runtime, with each plugin providing two functions: "Map" and
"Reduce". The indexing engine will crawl through the history of the chain,
executing the Map / Reduce operations for each block. The output will then be
stored in a relational database. Furthermore, we will integrate existing GraphQL
libraries that automatically generate APIs from existing database schemas.

## Benefits to the Cardano Ecosystem

By solving one of the primary challenges of building dApps in Cardano, we are
empowering developers to write less boilerplate code, focus more on
core-business propositions, and simplify the onboarding process when starting to
work on the Cardano ecosystem. By providing a validated solution similar to
those already applied in other blockchain ecosystems, we aim to reduce the
developer-experience gap that Cardano has compared to other ecosystems and
simplify the migration of projects already building in other ecosystems that
wish to integrate Cardano.

## Measuring Success

We plan to measure the success of the project by monitoring activity in the
open-source GitHub repository, the number of external repositories that include
this project as a dependency, and the number of dApp projects using this feature
through the hosted version at Demeter.run.

## Delivering the Project with High Levels of Trust and Accountability

TxPipe, the team behind this project, has a strong track record of contributing
to the Cardano ecosystem. Examples of our contributions include Pallas, a Rust
library for Cardano used by several high-profile projects, and Oura, an
off-chain data integration tool for Cardano used by many projects in the
community. Our past achievements demonstrate our commitment to the Cardano
community and the technical expertise required to develop and maintain Cardano
infrastructure.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, our proposal to create custom indexes for Blockchain data aims to
bring significant value to the Cardano ecosystem. By simplifying the process of
creating chain indexers that are lightweight, flexible, and performant, we
believe we can help the ecosystem grow and thrive.
